hey how's it going Dave 2d here so this
is a surface book to the 13 inch version
now when the original surface book
launched in 2015 I thought of some of
the coolest pieces of tech available at
the time it's just really impressive
because no one else was making something
quite like it two years later we're
still there no one else is making
something quite like this the CPU is
built into the screen it's removable and
it's a fully functional tablet by itself
and then the GPU is in the keyboard so
when they connect it becomes a
full-fledged graphically powered laptop
so I mean a lot of people want something
like this it's something quite unique
but it comes at a pretty steep price tag
this thing this unit here starts at
$2,000 us now there is a cheaper version
but the cheaper version does not have
the dedicated graphics card in the
keyboard so that makes it not as cool or
just not as unique to be honest so I'm
going to focus just the experience on
this one the $2,000 version now there's
a 15-inch version that's significantly
more expensive I may do video in the
future on that but 13-inch for this
video I want to talk about the hinge
first this is a hinge that when it first
was announced I had mixed feelings about
it because I felt like there's so many
moving parts there's places that dust
can get into there's just a lot of
things that could go wrong I thought
that's not the case two years later
people still don't have any major issues
with the hinge now the design isn't for
everyone it can look a little bit weird
but functionally and mechanically it's
really well made when you open it up
you'll notice that very little has
changed aesthetically the screen is
still the three by two aspect ratio with
good color accuracy it's bright it's
high-res there's no complaints here
there's no pen in the Box this year it's
an extra 100 bucks if you want to buy
one which I thought was a little bit
weird but I guess not everyone uses a
pen so it's understandable the one I'm
using is actually from the eve and it
works perfectly fine the keyboard and
trackpad are nice it's a noticeably
better typing experience than the
original surface book it's a little bit
quieter and it just feels more
responsive than the original surface
book keyboard not that that one was bad
it was already good this is just a
little bit better the trackpad has also
improved it's obviously still running
Windows precision drivers the button
mechanism feels a little more deliberate
when you press it and it's a little bit
louder than I remember the surface buck
1/2 B but it feels awesome so keyboard
trackpad both excellent performance is
good it's the quad core cable a car it's
a 15 watt CPU but it's fast in short
bursts multi-core performance is really
strong now but the question is whether
this extra speed really makes a big
difference for what you do and it really
depends on your workflow the truth is
for the majority of people that are
using a device like this it won't make
their workflow or just work experience
that much faster you need specific apps
that can handle multi-core processing
some computational stuff will really
benefit from it and same with video
editing but at the end of the day it is
a 15 watt you processor so it's not
gonna be the fastest laptop in the world
one thing to keep in mind the 13 inch
version does not have a fan in the
tablet component the 15 inch version of
this device like the surface book 215
your screen does have the same processor
as this but there is a fan in there so
it's able to run at a higher clock speed
for longer periods of time it also pulls
I think 20 watts instead of the 15 watt
ad max there is some CPU throttling when
you push it hard enough but most people
won't notice it because this is not the
device that people would choose for
really heavy CPU activity in terms of
gaming performance it's actually pretty
good the GTX 1050 pushes at some decent
performance you have to run it at a
lower than native resolution but light
to moderately demanding titles are very
playable on this device there are
reports that the 15 inch version with
the GTX 1060 it's actually pulling more
power than the AC adapter can supply so
it's actually draining batteries while
you're using it that doesn't happen on
the 13 inch version because this is
running a 1050 slightly less power drain
so yeah if you want to play games on
this device
I mean neither of them are a good choice
but the issue doesn't happen on the 13
inch version the speakers surprisingly
these have been improved this year
they're not as good as the 13 inch
MacBook Pro speakers but they sound
pretty good and they're positioned well
you get really nice stereo separation
the webcam is really good it's actually
one of the best webcams I've seen on a
laptop the mic quality sounds pretty
good as well
battery life on this thing is very good
I'm getting around 10 hours of use with
the screen at 250 nits
now this is with it in laptop mode with
the screen removed and just using it as
a clipboard I'm only getting around 3
hours this has a 23 watt hour battery
inside the screen and I think
67 what our battery inside the base but
overall good battery life it'll easily
last you the full day and for people
that aren't familiar with how the
charging works you can charge the tablet
by itself or you can connect the tablet
to the keyboard and just charge the base
and everything will charge up altogether
the drive speeds are a mixed bag the
read speeds are fast but the write
speeds are a little bit slow the
thermals are good the temperatures are
comfortable both in tablet and a laptop
mode the fan noise under max load is a
little bit loud but it's kind of
expected considering the size of the
chassis so there's a lot of stuff I like
with the surface book too but the big
things are not so much the CPU and the
GPU upgrades it's the little things like
the things like the speakers the
keyboard the track meant things that
they didn't have to change but they
tweaked it anyways because they're just
trying to make a better product overall
and I really like that that being said
there are things that I dislike about
this thing and the first one the big one
is the price now the price when you
first look at this thing seems very
expensive it's $2,000 for a 13-inch
laptop with a u processor and a gtx 1050
if you spent that money on something
like an XPS 15 you'd get something
that's more powerful but the reason why
I cost this much is because Microsoft is
the only company making something like
this no one else makes something like
this and the reason why is because it's
super hard to engineer this hinge and
it's super hard to engineer this device
to have a CP up top and the GP on the
bottom because if it wasn't hard you bet
that hallway or Xiaomi with making
something like this for a lot less money
but they aren't because they can't and
that is why they can charge whatever
they want to I don't like the price I
still feel like it's like 10 15 percent
more than it should be because this is
such a good product if it was more
appropriately priced more reasonably
priced I think a lot of people could
make great use of this but we can't
because it's just a little bit another
price range for a lot of people which is
unfortunate the other thing I don't like
about this thing is the lack of a
Thunderbolt 3 port so it has a decent
port selection to USB threes and SD card
slot and a USB C but it doesn't support
Thunderbolt 3 and that really bugs me
because this is a device that costs as
much as it does and it's their flagship
products right every sing other
manufacturer out there who's making
flagship laptops has Thunderbolt 3
support in 2017 and it just lets you
connect to faster storage external GPUs
4k displays all these multi
4k displays there's just a lot of good
features that come with Thunderbolt 3
and it seems so weird that they didn't
include it
now the omission of Thunderbolt 3 feels
almost purposeful like they did it with
intent and that's what bugs me like are
they waiting for a surface book 3 to
come out so they can sell that or was it
something like cost-saving measure I
have no idea
but it doesn't make sense to me as to
why they didn't include such a
ubiquitously useful port in late 2017
and I guess that leads to my last thing
I don't love about it the AC adapter
they include is a proprietary connector
and it would have been nice if they
included a USBC adapter you can charge
it through that port you just need to
supply your own adapter so overall great
device you just got to make sure that
you're using it to its full purpose
because if you're buying this and you're
not making use of the tablet and you're
not making use of the detach ability and
all that then there are probably cheaper
devices that would've been a better fit
but if you can make use of it and you
can afford it's relatively high price
tag you're gonna enjoy it ok hope you
guys enjoyed this video thumbs you liked
it subs you loved it see you guys next
time
[Music]